JavaScript History and Setup.

1. What is the difference between JavaScript and ECMAScript?

ECMAScript is a standard that dictates certain features and sets of functionality, but there are many different JavaScript engines that implement that ECMAScript standard; one is Google's V8 engine. While,
JavaScript is a programming language that is essential for web development, and is most likely providing the interaction on a web page.

2. Who is Brendan Eich?
JavaScript was created in 10 days in May 1995 by Brendan Eich.

3. How do you hide and show the Chrome console?
To show the Chrome console press Option + Command + j on a Mac (or Control + Shift + J on Windows and Linux). Another way is to right click on the web page, select Inspect, and then move to the tab called Console to get to the console.

4. Create a simple page with a script tag. Inside of the script tag declare a couple of variables and then log their values to the console.
Using JavaScript and HTML in 2 Separate Files:
This is a better practice, especially as your HTML and JavaScript files get longer.
Open up a text editor like VS Code and create a file with a .html extension (index.html for example). Save the file!
We include a script tag by adding a <script src="first.js"></script> tag inside of the <head></head> tag where you can  link to a separate JavaScript file.
Inside of the script tag, write the following:

let alert = "Hello, World!";
const title = 'Coming to you from first.js!';
console.log(alert); // Hello, World!
console.log(title); // Coming to you from first.js!

5. Research prompt and confirm - what do they do?

The prompt:
There are many ways to use the prompt feature. 
The prompt() open the blank prompt window. The Window.prompt() displays a dialog with an optional message prompting the user to input some text.
A prompt dialog contains a single-line textbox, a Cancel button, and an OK button, and returns the (possibly empty) text the user entered into that textbox. Please note that result is a string.

let sign = prompt("What's your sign?");

The confirm:
The Window.confirm() method displays a modal dialog with an optional message and two buttons, OK and Cancel.

result = window.confirm(message);

Here, message is the optional string to be displayed in the dialog.
result is a boolean value indicating whether OK or Cancel was selected (true means OK).

(window.confirm("Do you really want to leave?")