Branching and Merging Exercises. - Part I

1. If you are dealing with an untracked or unmerged file, you cannot use git checkout to remove it from the working directory. You must use git clean -df to remove these files.

2. -d
   Normally, when no <path> is specified, git clean will not recurse into untracked directories to avoid removing too much. Specify -d to have it recurse into such directories as well. If any paths are specified, -d is irrelevant; all untracked files matching the specified paths (with exceptions for nested git directories mentioned under --force) will be removed.

-f, --force
   If the Git configuration variable clean.requireForce is not set to false, git clean will refuse to delete files or directories unless given -f or -i. Git will refuse to modify untracked nested git repositories (directories with a .git subdirectory) unless a second -f is given.

3. To create a new branch we use the git checkout command with the -b flag and then pass in a name of a branch. This looks like git checkout -b NAME_OF_BRANCH .

4. A fast forward merge is when git can easily tell when the commits happened and "put" one set of commits on top of another chronologically.

When different commits happen at different times on two branches, and git cannot easily determine what order these commits happened in, a recursive merge needs to happen. In a recursive merge, git uses an algoinf-paces to try to merge branches when a simple fast-forward merge won't suffice.

5. git checkout NAME_OF_BRANCH

6. If you want to remove files from the working directory (before they have been staged) you can use git checkout NAME_OF_FILE .

7. To delete a branch we make sure we are not on that branch and then run git branch -D NAME_OF_BRANCH .

8. If you want to see differences between your commits you can use the git diff command and specify the SHA to compare.

9. Type git rm --cached NAME_OF_FILE .

10. When you commit changes to the same file on two different branches, Git does not know which commit to go with so it creates a merge conflict.  